New workspace guide (#20)
neo4j-graph-examples/stackoverflow: documentation/stackoverflow.workspace.adoc

== Explore Stack Overflow
:images: {img}

image::{img}/so_logo.svg[float=right,width=200px]

https://stackoverflow.com/[Stack Overflow^], the massively popular question-and-answer site for developers.

In this guide, you will learn:

* How you can model social data as graphs
* How to query the graph and answer questions using Cypher
* How to use shortest path algorithms to understand relationships

In the next section, you will import the Stack Overflow dataset into Neo4j.

> == Stack Overflow Graph Model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Stack Overflow graph model
```

. Follow the `ASKED` relationship to the `User` who asked the question
. Find an `Answer` node and follow the `ANSWERED` relationship to the `Question` it answered

`(:User)-[:ASKED]->(:Question)`
`(:User)-[:COMMENTED]->(:Comment)`
`(:User)-[:PROVIDED]->(:Answer)`
[TIP]
====
You can zoom in to see more detail and double-click on nodes to expand them and see their properties.
====

Answers attempt to answer questions, comments are made on questions, and questions are associated with tags.  
In the next section, you will use Cypher to query the graph.

`(:Answer)-[:ANSWERED]->(:Question)`
`(:Comment)-[:COMMENTED_ON]->(:Question)`
`(:Question)-[:TAGGED]->(:Tag)`
== Users and Questions
[role=NX_TAB_NAV,tab=query]
pagelaunch::[]

If you want to see it yourself, run:
Using the data model and Cypher, you can answer questions such as:

* Which users asked the most questions?
* Which users provided the most answers?
* How are users related to each other?
* Which questions are unanswered?
* What answers are the most popular?

The following query will use the `ASKED` relationship to find `User` and `Question` nodes.

.Match User and Question nodes
[source,cypher]
----

> CALL db.schema.visualization();

Reviewer 2: I think keeping the schema viz is actually a good thing here, and then do the query next.

Author: I have added it back into the guide as a tip

> MATCH (u:User)-[ ]->( )

Reviewer 2: do you want to leave it like this (which is nice because it's executable)

or put in a place holder like `MATCH (u:User)-[/* fill in relationship-type */]->( /* node label here */)` ?

Author: I think giving the user a hint is s good idea. I have added ? marks as placeholders.

> RETURN u,

Reviewer 2: Should we assign and return a path?

====

> [%collapsible]

Reviewer 2: love it

Author: :)

    ON CREATE SET answer.is_accepted = a.is_accepted,
    answer.link=a.share_link,
    answer.title=a.title,
    answer.body_markdown=a.body_markdown,
    answer.score=a.score,
   	answer.favorite_score=a.favorite_score,
   	answer.view_count=a.view_count
   MERGE (answerer:User {uuid:coalesce(a.owner.user_id,'deleted')}) 
    ON CREATE SET answerer.display_name = a.owner.display_name
   MERGE (answer)<-[:PROVIDED]-(answerer)
)
MATCH (u:User)-[ ]->( )
RETURN u,
----
====

// who commented ont he question
FOREACH (c in q.comments |
  MERGE (question)<-[:COMMENTED_ON]-(comment:Comment {uuid:c.comment_id})
    ON CREATE SET comment.link=c.link, comment.score=c.score
  MERGE (commenter:User {uuid:coalesce(c.owner.user_id,'deleted')}) 
    ON CREATE SET commenter.display_name = c.owner.display_name
  MERGE (comment)<-[:COMMENTED]-(commenter)
);
[%collapsible]
.Reveal the solution
====
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (u:User)-[p:PROVIDED]->(a:Answer)
RETURN u,p,a
----
====

The query will return this graph of `User` and `Answer` nodes.

image::{img}/user-provided-answer.png[A graph of User and Answer nodes. There are clear clusters of users and answers.]

> Read More: https://neo4j.com/docs/apoc/current/import/load-json/#load-json-examples-stackoverflow[Import from StackOverflow API^]

Reviewer 2: should we have this at the end in a references section?

> MATCH (u:User)-[:ASKED]->(q:Question)

Reviewer 2: should we go with the new syntax?

```
MATCH (u:User)
RETURN u, count { (u)-[:ASKED]->() } as questions
ORDER BY questions DESC LIMIT 5

```

Author: I would always go with keeping it simple. Plus as you noted later it leads into another query.

The distribution of nodes in the graph is not uniform - you can see that a few users have provided many answers.

== Basic Queries
In the next section, you will write Cypher to discover who those users are.

Labels in the graph and counts for each:
== Exploring Users

As well as returning nodes, you can also return properties of nodes and aggregations (e.g. counts).

.How many questions did users ask?
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (n)
RETURN labels(n) as label, count(*) as freq
ORDER BY freq DESC;
MATCH (u:User)-[:ASKED]->(q:Question)
RETURN u.display_name, count(*) AS questions
----

Relationship-types in the graph and counts for eachabel:
Adding an order and limiting the number of rows will return a top 10 list of users who asked the most questions.

[source,cypher]
----
MATCH ()-[r]->()
RETURN type(r) as type, count(*) as freq
ORDER BY freq DESC;
MATCH (u:User)-[:ASKED]->(q:Question)
RETURN u.display_name, count(*) AS questions
ORDER by questions DESC 
LIMIT 10
----

> == Top Tags

Reviewer 2: Top tags is actually more interesting than top askers :)

So I would do the above as "top-answerers" you can even link to: https://stackoverflow.com/tags/neo4j/topusers
And skip top-askers.

and then go for the tags, because the tags also allow you correlation  and co-occurence clusters which highlights the graphiness of the data.

> You can create a similar query for users who provided the most answers.

Reviewer 2: should this be a task?

> RETURN u.display_name, COUNT(a) AS answers, avg(a.score) as avg_score

Reviewer 2: ok, then we should probably stick with the regular syntax not `count {}`

image::{img}/so_logo.svg[float=right,width=200px]

https://stackoverflow.com/[Stack Overflow^], the massively popular question-and-answer site for developers.

In this guide, you will learn:

* How you can model social data as graphs
* How to query the graph and answer questions using Cypher
* How to use shortest path algorithms to understand relationships

In the next section, you will import the Stack Overflow dataset into Neo4j.

== Stake Overflow Graph Model
[role=NX_TAB_NAV,tab=import]
pagelaunch::[]

The model contains data about users' questions, answers, and comments about Neo4j and Cypher.

Nodes represent: 

* `Users`
* `Questions`
* `Answers`
* `Comments`

> * `Tags`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Tags`
```

Click the highlight:import/import-run-import-button[Run import] button to import the data into Neo4j.

button::Explore the data[role=NX_EXPLORE_SEARCH,search=User any Question any Answer]

Take a minute to _Explore_ the data:

. Find a `Question` node
. Follow the `ASKED` relationship to the `User` who asked the question
. Find an `Answer` node and follow the `ANSWERED` relationship to the `Question` it answered

You can zoom in to see more detail and double-click on nodes to see their properties.

[TIP]
====
You can also see a visual representation of the graph data model by running this Cypher query:

[source,cypher]
----
CALL db.schema.visualization();
----
====

In the next section, you will use Cypher to query the graph.

== Users and Questions
[role=NX_TAB_NAV,tab=query]
pagelaunch::[]

Using the data model and Cypher, you can answer questions such as:

* Which users asked the most questions?
* Which users provided the most answers?
* How are users related to each other?
* Which questions are unanswered?
* What answers are the most popular?

> The following query will use the `ASKED` relationship to find `User` and `Question` nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following query uses the `ASKED` relationship to find `User` and `Question` nodes.
```

.Match User and Question nodes
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (u:User)-[a:ASKED]->(q:Question)
RETURN u,a,q
----

[NOTE]
====

> The arrow button icon:ArrowIcon[] will copy the query to the clipboard.
> 
> The play button icon:PlayIcon[] will execute the query and return the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The arrow button icon:ArrowIcon[] copies the query to the clipboard.

The play button icon:PlayIcon[] executes the query and returns the results.
```

====

> Run the query and observe the results. You should note that the `ASKED` relationship is in the direction `User` to `Question`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the query and observe the results. 
You should note that the `ASKED` relationship is in the direction `User` to `Question`.
```

[NOTE]
.Challenge
====
Can you complete this query to find `User` and `Answer` nodes using the `PROVIDED` relationship:

.Replace the `?`'s to complete the query
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (u:User)-[?]->(?)
RETURN u,?,?
----
====

[%collapsible]
.Reveal the solution
====
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (u:User)-[p:PROVIDED]->(a:Answer)
RETURN u,p,a
----
====

> The query will return this graph of `User` and `Answer` nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The query returns this graph of `User` and `Answer` nodes.
```

image::{img}/user-provided-answer.png[A graph of User and Answer nodes. There are clear clusters of users and answers.]

The distribution of nodes in the graph is not uniform - you can see that a few users have provided many answers.

In the next section, you will write Cypher to discover who those users are.

== Exploring Users

As well as returning nodes, you can also return properties of nodes and aggregations (e.g. counts).

.How many questions did users ask?
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (u:User)-[:ASKED]->(q:Question)
RETURN u.display_name, count(*) AS questions
----

> Adding an order and limiting the number of rows will return a top 10 list of users who asked the most questions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adding an order and limiting the number of rows returns a top 10 list of users who asked the most questions.
```

[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (u:User)-[:ASKED]->(q:Question)
RETURN u.display_name, count(*) AS questions
ORDER by questions DESC 
LIMIT 10
----

You can create a similar query for users who provided the most answers.

.How many answers did users provide?
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (u:User)-[:PROVIDED]->(a:Answer)
RETURN u.display_name, COUNT(a) AS answers
ORDER BY answers DESC 
LIMIT 10
----

> Users score answers on StakeOverflow. You can find each user's average score for answers using the `avg` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users score answers on StackOverflow. 
You can find each user's average score for answers using the `avg` function.
```

RETURN u,a,q
----

.Using a WHERE clause
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (u:User)-[a:ASKED]->(q:Question)
WHERE u.display_name = "A. L"
RETURN u,a,q
----

Extending the query to include the `Tag` nodes through the `TAGGED` relationship allows you to filter for questions with a particular tag.

[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (u:User)-[a:ASKED]->(q:Question)-[tg:TAGGED]->(t:Tag)
WHERE u.display_name = "A. L" AND t.name = "cypher"
RETURN u,a,q,tg,t
----

[NOTE]
.Challenge
====
Can you find comments made by `"cybersam"` on questions tagged with `"neo4j"`? 

You will have to traverse the graph using the `User`, `Comment`, `Question`, and `Tag` nodes, through the `COMMENTED`, `COMMENTED_ON`, and `TAGGED` relationships.
====

[%collapsible]
.Reveal the solution
====
.Comments made by "cybersam" on questions tagged with "neo4j"
[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (u:User)-[ct:COMMENTED]->(c:Comment)-[co:COMMENTED_ON]->(q:Question)-[tg:TAGGED]->(t:Tag)
WHERE u.display_name = "cybersam" AND t.name = "neo4j"
RETURN u,ct,c,co,q,tg,t
----
====

In the next section, you will use shortest path functions to understand how users relate to each other.

== Shortest paths

> As you have seen, users are related to each other through the questions they ask, the answers they provide, and the comments they make.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you have seen, user nodes are related to each other through the questions they ask, the answers they provide, and the comments they make.
```

You can use shortest path functions to find the shortest path between users.

For example, you can use `shortestPath` function to find the shortest route between the user `"A. L"` who asked the most questions, and `"cybersam"` who provided the most answers.

[source,cypher]
----
MATCH path = shortestPath(
  (u1:User {display_name:"A. L"})-[*]-(u2:User {display_name:"cybersam"})
)
RETURN path;
----

The query is defined as the path `(u1:User {display_name:"A. L"})-[*]-(u2:User {display_name:"cybersam"})`.

The `[*]` is a wildcard that matches any relationship type.

> The query returns the first shortest path it finds. You can return all of the shortest paths by using the `allShortestPaths` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The query returns the first shortest path it finds. 
You can return all of the shortest paths by using the `allShortestPaths` function.
```

[source,cypher]
----
MATCH path = allShortestPaths(
  (u1:User {display_name:"A. L"})-[*]-(u2:User {display_name:"cybersam"})
)
RETURN path;
----

[NOTE]
.Challenge
====
Can you identify two other users in the graph and find the shortest path between them?
====

In the next section, you will explore some Cypher queries and review the results.

== Exploring the Graph

> In this section, you will review and run some Cypher queries which explore the graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section lets you review and run some Cypher queries that explore the graph.
```

Review each Cypher query before running and observing the results.

=== Unanswered Questions

> What questions remain unanswered? In the graph, unanswered questions do not have an `ANSWERED` relationship.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What questions remain unanswered? 
In the graph, unanswered questions do not have an `ANSWERED` relationship.
```

> The absence of a relationship is a valid path in Cypher. You can use the `NOT` keyword to negate a pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The absence of a relationship is a valid path in Cypher. 
You can use the `NOT` keyword to negate a pattern.
```

By aggregating when users interacted with StakeOverflow, you can see how active they are.

For example, you can aggregate the number of questions answered by month.

[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (u:User)-[:PROVIDED]->()-[:ANSWERED]->
      (q:Question)-[:TAGGED]->(t:Tag)
WHERE u.display_name = "cybersam"
RETURN apoc.date.format(q.creation_date,'s','yyyy-MM') as month, 
       count(distinct q) as count, collect(distinct t.name) as tags
ORDER BY month asc
----

=== How are tags related to other tags?

Understanding how users tag questions can help you see patterns.

For example, how tags correlate to each other:

[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (t1:Tag)<-[:TAGGED]-()-[:TAGGED]->(t2:Tag)
WHERE id(t1) < id(t2) and t1.name <> 'neo4j' and t2.name <> 'neo4j'
RETURN t1.name, t2.name,count(*) as freq
ORDER BY freq desc LIMIT 10;
----

=== Virtual Graphs: Tags

Using virtual relationships can help you find unknown relationships in the graph. 

For example, you can create a virtual relationship between tags that occur together more than three times:

[source,cypher]
----
MATCH (t1:Tag)<-[:TAGGED]-()-[:TAGGED]->(t2:Tag)
WHERE id(t1) < id(t2) 
WITH t1, t2, count(*) as freq WHERE freq > 3

> RETURN t1,t2, apoc.create.vRelationship(t1,'OCCURRED',{freq:freq},t2) AS rel

Reviewer 2: I think we should rather keep the rels materializes, so the rels stay in the graph and people can query them and explore them with Bloom etc.

we haven't introduced apoc yet and it adds another level of complexity.

which reminds me perhaps we should do an APOC GA course (https://dev.neo4j.com/apoc-videos)

Author: My first instinct was to remove these 2 queries as I thought they added too much complexity. Given you comments I think I will drop them.

> ----

Reviewer 2: We should add one or two exploration queries for these new OCCURRED relationships.
Btw. if you as a native speaker have a better name, that has less likelyhood for typos - that would be awesome.

ORDER BY questions DESC LIMIT 10;
----

=== User Engagement

> By aggregating when users interacted with StakeOverflow, you can see how active they are.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By aggregating when users interacted with StackOverflow, you can see how active they are.
```

RETURN u1, u2, apoc.create.vRelationship(u1,'OCCURRED',{freq:freq},u2) as rel
----

In the next section, you will find more resources to continue learning about Neo4j.

== Next steps

Congratulations on completing this guide!

You can continue your Neo4j learning journey with these resources:

https://neo4j.com/graphacademy[Neo4j GraphAcademy - completely free online courses^]

https://neo4j.com/videos/exploring-stackoverflow-data-with-michael-hunger-twitch-stream/[Exploring StackOverflow data with Michael Hunger – Twitch stream^]

> https://neo4j.com/blog/import-10m-stack-overflow-questions/[Import 10M Stack Overflow Questionsinto Neo4j In Just 3 Minutes^]

Reviewer 2: there is also the tagoverflow post https://towardsdatascience.com/tagoverflow-correlating-tags-in-stackoverflow-66e2b0e1117b
